So what I did was create a new class that
demonstrates the new param feature in.
net 9.
So this is explicitly asking for to
implement this into the calculator.
So when it goes ahead and creates that
and.
And that new feature OK it upgrades the
programs dot CS file to actually call it
and when it was finished I said just the
the instruction file which I I attached
the project one project instructions dot
MD.
Explicitly says do not use dot DET 9 and
I asked it to explain why it added this
dot DET 9 SIC text and how to enforce
that constraint and it apologized for
having made the mistake and.
Then went into how to enforce the
constraint. Well,
first we need to delete the non compliant
file of course and then add some
additional enforcement strategies.
For example,
in the CS project file we can specify the
language version that we're using and
also talked about adding a global a
global JSON file to lock to to a specific
version of the SDK,
update our CICD to enforce that SDK.
Version right, which was fine.
And they apologized again for making that
error. And then I asked how do you,
how do I keep this from happening again?
I'm concerned that other instructions may
be ignored and it went through and
analyzed all of that and it came up with
a multi-layer defense strategy for that.
One is to improve the instruction
availability.
It liked our instruction files it had.
We had clear apply to patterns and
critical markers in the file saying.
That this is a critical instruction,
but what was interesting is that it added
this. I had deleted some steps here,
but it added a critical instruction that
must use.net 8 instead of.
net 9 to all of the instruction files.
And then I ran it again and it added the
code right back in again and ignored the
instructions completely and that was.
Is really what prompted me to ask it
about these,
how to enforce them across the board.
So it had in the project instruction file.
It's saying before generating any code.
Read these critical constraints first.
And then if they add a dot N 9 feature
and pile,
you know back away from that and don't do
it.
It also suggested you verify the
constraint file that you could easily.
Execute to verify that none of the
constraints are that we've been
describing are being invalidated and
added this verifying constraints to our
CICD pipeline so that it would verify
those constraints when it.
And whenever we committed some code.
There's a it created a pre code checklist
which is something I thought I hadn't
considered and what it basically says
before you before creating any code
generation.
And in asserting here that AI assistance
will read this file before creating or
modifying any code,
verify the project constraints,
which is the project uses.net only no.
net 9 features.
The features are compatible with the.
C# but not C# 13.
No preview or experimental features are
are required.
There's a a checklist that it created
common.
net features to avoid and it lists out
what those are.
Validate after changes by running that
verify constraint.
File.
When it then it tells you what to do if
you somebody actually asks for a specific.
net 9 feature and what the correct
response would be.
And then some reference links and a quick
constraint summary.
And so that was that was interesting.
Um.
Here is a um.
A quick setup guide and and a pre-commit
hook which would basically run before any
commit is actually allowed.
And this would run that verify
constraints PS1 file and if that returns
an an exit code that's not equal to 0 it
then blocks the the commit.
Yeah, I created a constraint informant.
A setup guide to actually implement these
constraints.
Global modified the create a global GSN.
And then a summary of the protections
that it tried to implement.
So these are some of the strategies I
think.
What's what's interesting is is the ones
that we would put into the instruction
file to do constraint enforcement and
basically call out what needs to be done.
When it finds a a a constraint violation.
I think we could, we could also ask it to,
you know,
make sure that it invokes those
instruction files,
because that was what happened here
primarily was that it just skipped
bringing in the instruction files and
ignored those critical constraints.
All right. Any questions on that?
I just have one question.
When we are done with this training,
can we clone your repo as is?
Um, which one? The one with all the?
Oh,
the one where you are doing all this
practice.
So are are you gonna like push these
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So this is a private repo.
changes and we can come clone it?
All I need to do is add you as a
contributor. So just send me.
You'll need to have a GitHub account,
and if you have a GitHub account,
send me your e-mail address that you used
to set up the account.
And I'll add you as a contributor and
you'll be able to clone this repo.
OK. Thanks.
Yes.
All right, so let's go ahead and.
Add all of that work to the repo.
OK, so.
It's.
Pick up where we left off on the slides
just to make sure we cover everything.
So we we did this before and I want to do
a couple of things related to our our
Evergreen coding and our instruction
files that we've created so far.
I I think the first one would be let's
clear this and let's create an
instruction file for Evergreen coding or
Evergreen development.
close all of our.
Editors and let's I create instruction.
File for every name doctor.
Development.
We'll let this think what I what I want
to do first is it would be a step that
you would you want to take consistently
as you were.
As you were adding instructions into your
project,
I I kind of I covered this briefly
yesterday,
but I want to actually execute it and and
go over the the outcome and the results
of this and that is the.
Uh.
Let's make this a little bigger.
Let's go back in here,
look at our instruction files,
and the instruction file I want to look
at is the.
WPF style testing instructions is 1 from
the other one,
so let me drag that over into the other
this project.
And.
That is the context check instruction.
So let's just put that in the main
instruction file.
And once it gets done creating this
Evergreen instruction file,
I want to run this against all the
instruction files in the project and and
the reason I want to do this is partly I
think one of the reasons that we saw that
it wasn't able to detect these.
Changes that were conflicting against the
instruction file for not putting in
dotnet 9 features and that is that there
are inconsistencies in the instruction
files themselves that we need to resolve.
Before we can use them,
and it's kind of like a a compiling or
linting process that it will look at the
instruction files and point out places
where there are things that could become
confusing to the AI.
Or to asset for that matter when we're
actually implementing or or using the
file to actually do some implementation.
So this do we we should get a new
instruction file here someplace.
And let's see. No, here it is.
Evergreen development.
It's it didn't put it into our
instruction file.
Did I I did I ask one for one?
I think I did.
Right.
So let's go up and put that in our
instruction folder.
And so now that we have that check
constraint in place.
So check contents context we can say.
Yeah,
check context prompt and I'm believe it's
a scoped.
That's good. It's it's.
It'll consider everything it has in.
In in the context.
And then tell us if it if it finds any
problems with any of these issues.
So it'll be looking for conflicting
instructions where we're telling it in
two different instruction files to to to
do different things.
Factual inconsistencies.
Are there any logical contradictions?
Uh,
are there differences in scope and
priority?
Technical incompatibilities.
The communication gaps and duplication
and redundancy and then here's the
response that we would get back so.
So here we're getting a.
The second one is a duplication and
redundancy problem. Here we have a.
net 8 constraint repetition.
A number of different one critical issue
found, which is the.
net version conflict between the project
requirements.
net 8 and an Evergreen recommendation of.
net 9.
So there's a inconsistency there that we
we would have to make sure that we
resolve.
And obviously,
I think if you're particularly pinned
down to a specific.net version,
then you're going to be dealing with just
having to change the Evergreen portion to
allow you to do.net 8 development.
And then you can add back in the
constraint to.
NET 9 once you've done the migration to.
NET 9.
So um.
It's not integrated instruction system,
so I think that moving it up into the
instructions folder would help.
What else it found?
So it's just it found just that's a
summary, so it's gonna go through these.
I think it's calling out the fact that
the Evergreen development markdown file
doesn't have the instructions dot MD like
at the end of it.
Oh yeah, yeah, you're right about that.
You're right.
It it seemed like when I created it,
it it it didn't pick up those
instructions and.
Maybe we don't. We have a.
We have instructions for that,
so for creating instructions.
Do we project instructions here?
Practices.
I'm not seeing it. Must be here somewhere.
But anyway,
so we're just going back to this.
The the conflicting instructions.
It's pointing out where those conflicting
instructions are and what file that
they're in,
and that we really need to address this
one.
The duplication and redundancy coverage
code coverage standard duplication.
So it's telling us within the testing
instructions and the practice and
instructions reference detailed coverage
standards and we need to resolve that.
Impact is low severity and it says it's
an acceptable redundancy for clarity to
have that between in both files and the
cross reference ensures and consistency,
so it doesn't recommend any modifications.
We've got the constraint replication
across multiple files.
It's basically what I asked it to.
Enforce the.net 8 constraints.
It added that constraint to all the
instruction files.
It considers this a positive redundancy
and that we should keep it at is
communication gaps.
It's not integrated into the instruction
files, it's and.
It has no apply to or triggers.
It's not filing the established naming
pattern,
so we would try to that's medium severity
and add the appropriate formatter to that
file.
And add it to the in the readme file.
Scope and priority conflicts.
There's no no conflicts detected in that,
no conflicts in incompatibilities,
no logical contradictions,
no factual inconsistency. So by and large,
this is pretty good.
We just need to kind of fix up this
Evergreen.
One,
I just want to find that instruction file.
Uh, project instructions.
Yeah.
Interesting, so.
Maybe I should get it from the other
project?
But I I have a question.
So in the instructions directory you you
Yeah.
have something like the you also have
like this checklist thing as well.
Actually I thought it was there,
maybe it's somewhere else.
But I guess my question is does it?
How does it know when to?
Like bring in something like I think I
saw somewhere that it it sort of looks
specifically for these like instructions
dot in these as like instruction files.
This checklist kind of also seems like an
instruction.
Is checklist like another like built in
identifiers? Is it something that?
The copilot would like automatically know
that it needs to run every time you do
something.
Like how does that one fit into all of
this?
I don't I don't remember exactly where
this checklist file was located.
Yeah,
let me finish copying this instruction
file over and instruction prompt.
OK.
Let me do this one.
That's not what I want.
Sorry from there.
Delay. I'm just.
I seem to be missing an instruction file
that I wanted to show you and I'm trying
to figure out what happened to it.
All right, well, let's just recreate it.
How about that?
And let's go.
Over here,
we'll copy that and we'll bring it over
to our project.
And we'll put this in prompts.
So this this is the prompt to give an
instruction file or to create an
instruction file.
So I think I do this here.
Let's clear the context. Those are.
Our windows and let's go ahead and run
this.
OK, now back to the the checklist. It can.
It understands what a checklist is and it
can iterate through that checklist.
So if you create an instruction file that
has a set of steps that you want to
execute,
you can put a checklist in the markdown
file and it will.
And and if you tell it to update the
checklist as it proceeds,
it will then be able to basically in the
chat window show you the the the current
instruction that it's executing and check
them off.
So it's a kind of.
It's a feature that mark markdown that
the copilot understands and can and can
interpret.
You don't have to add anything to the IDE
or everything.
Yeah, so like specific specifically,
I think you had a a file that was.
I'm talking more specifically about the
the name of the file,
although I didn't see it last time you
opened up the instructions directory.
Maybe you were in a different project,
but I think sort of like how it.
Created this like Evergreen.
like instruction file. Yes,
see this like pre-code checklist on MD.
Mhm.
Is the fact that this one doesn't have
dot instruction dot MD at the end also
going to be an issue or will the copilot
actually know because it's in the
instructions directory that this should
You know,
because it looks like it has the front
Yeah, it will pick it up.
matter.
Yeah, you know,
some of them do and some of them don't.
But the instructions is more of a
convention than it is a requirement.
I tend to do that because I'd like to
know,
you know what both what the instruction
file is for as well as.
As well as you know what it's actually
trying to produce, right? So,
so that's how how I've been trying to
organize these instruction files.
So here we've created a.
Where was an instruction standards
instruction file?
So this has the instruction standards for
creating instruction file.
And have some examples of what those
should look like.
And I think we're we're not getting a lot
of the front manner material because I
don't think we have the instruction file
here for actually managing the A I any
interactions.
Which is something I I I showed you at
first simply because I wanted to make
sure that those are that we could see how
those are followed as we move forward and
it looks like I never added them to this
project.
So.
What we can do now is we can say um.
With this as our.
Let's go ahead and keep that instruction
file.
And focus on just this file.
So looking at that we could say apply
these.
Standards.
Team Uh.
To this instruction file.
No, didn't. That was a mistake.
It's undo not.
It applied the instruction file to itself.
So let's do this. Um.
Be more a little more explicit about this
saying we want to.
Apply. Oh, it's still working.
Go ahead and stop that imply these imply
the.
Standards to the.
The hashtag.
The Evergreen developments standards.
And let's see what this does.
So when I'm working on a project,
I I tend to not create them all at one
time. I I um.
I I add them one at a time and then then
go ahead and and check for any any issues
with that those combinations because what
it's trying to do is actually look at all
of the instruction files that are
currently in context and compare them
against.
And evaluate them against each other and
doing them in a more iterative fashion
produces less, produces issues,
fewer issues,
and then you can fix those issues as you
go along so they don't all show up at the
end.
So here it's going through and it looks
like it applied some additional scope
definitions of what Evergreen development
looks like.
What some of the prerequisites are,
what some of the output instruction upper
requirements are.
And.
Well, let's see how it's doing there.
And now it's cleaning up,
cleaning up his work.
So it's defined, assess the current state,
establish automation infrastructure,
define the update cadence and
responsibilities.
Uh, implement some core principles.
Execute updates safely.
And Dave wants to put it in a different
folder.
Go ahead and keep those changes.
All right,
so now we have a a more consistent.
A set of instruction files that we can
apply and now we can start to work with
those instruction files. So you know,
thinking of it in terms of legacy
development,
we and without having to make any changes
to the code,
we can do some of that documentation work.
What I want to get to next is actually
implementing some more tasks.
Um,
but we can create these instruction files.
We can use these instruction files to
then say look at the code and tell me.
How we how the code,
the implementation actually deviates from
the instructions.
So I have a a prompt like that I can
bring over.
Which is the?
2.
That's here.
So what this one does is analyzes the
report repository and reports any
deviation from the rules and guidance to
find in our data instructions.
So we can take that and copy this over.
Into.
A project we can put this into our
instruction folder.
And then we can say, uh,
let's close all of our windows.
That's a new scope and then say go ahead
and run the code base review.
And this will now that we have
established some of the instructions that
we want the the project to follow.
It will then produce some.
It will look at it and see what issues we
actually need to do in order for us to
align with those instructions.
O Now it's going to read the actual
roject.
And again,
what we're doing here is creating a
technical debt backlog, right?
We're finding things that that exist in
the code base that we need to be able.
We should we would want to remove from
the code base. This is, you know,
obviously a good idea for legacy code
bases,
but this also applies to Greenfield.
Field 'cause we're defining,
we would want our Greenfield development
to follow these same standards and.
That's what we'll be working on tomorrow.
Any questions on this process?
What is it doing?
Yeah, I think I know what this is doing.
Yes, it was in the wrong folder.
So it was.
Pulling in the wrong all the basically
all the projects that I have on my on any
of my git repositories.
So it now focus that down to just the
projects that we're interested in.
And that's creating our audit report.
I wish I could type that fast.
So that was a part prioritize these in
terms of which ones gives us the biggest
value for with the least amount of effort.
Bigger issues that we would have to
possibly create a a plan for or a project
for.
So 17 seconds total.
So positive findings,
constraint enforcement, version control,
test coverage, 77%,
not bad error handling and naming
conventions that likes our CICD and our
XML documentation.
Technical dead items that it it flagged
that to do commenting.
Again,
low documented technical debt that's
already been done and conclusion that
it's well structured and a strong
instruction compliance.
So just identified 7 issues.
That we should think about addressing and
of course we can,
we can tell it now if we want to go ahead
and create issues for this and as we've
discussed,
we can have those issues automatically
posted into the work item tracking system
that we're using and that would
automatically add it to our.
Backlog and we could and then prioritize
those and get those addressed.
So any any questions on on this this
process?
So it basically was first we create the
instruction files that apply to the
project itself.
We use the generate instructions prompt
to do that and that identified all of the
technology and the standards and
practices that we were following.
And then we use that those instruction
files we did,
we were able to use those to do a
comparison against the existing code base
and produce a a list of issues that we
would want to address in order to to be
compliant with the instruction files that
we created.
Oh.
All right,
so in terms of keeping everything green,
we've got the, you know,
those instruction files that we've
created and as long as we keep invoking
those construction files and applying
that the the code base will stay,
you know,
and once we fix those issues and it will
help us keep that code in an Evergreen
state.
So we've seen kind of how this is lint
linting works and how we're using it
basically going beyond static linting
tools and and and and kind of looking at
A at the the the code in a higher.
Level way by having it correspond to
these instruction roles that we've
created.
So that really gives us I think a better
control over the code that we're actually
doing. So test automation,
let's what I want to do is focus our next
bit of time on.
Improving our test coverage with unit
tests,
integration tests and end to end tests
and performances,
all kinds of different kinds of tests,
we can generate those tests.
Very easily through through the prompts
that we've talked about already.
We can also do a comparison and say you
know what is our test coverage look like
now and.
What does our test coverage look like now
and where do we need to to to have more
tests created?
We did some work like that earlier if we
go back to our.
Our projects we can.
There's a a prompt like that here.
Which is a test gap analysis prompt.
And what it does is um.
No problem.
Let's preview that and then move it into
a new window.
So it's look at the current code base of
what tests are needed and missing.
So it performs like a read only audit of
the repository to identify what the
existing tests are and it what critical
functionalities it surfaces with missing
or insufficient tests.
And recommend concrete test cases and
priorities and example scaffolds,
proposed realistic coverage goals and
step wise plan to get there.
So this is at a I think at a much more
much it's a it's a better approach to
doing a test gap analysis.
Then just using code coverage because
code coverage is you know,
really just determining you know a line
by line whether that line is executing,
it's not really telling us is and is are
the test actually really testing the
functionality of the application itself.
And this kind of a coverage will
eliminate eliminate code that actually
isn't effectively part of the behavior.
It's more structural and really focus on
the behavior of the code itself.
So the impedes,
it would be all the code in the code base.
It's looking for the unit test,
integration test, and test, etcetera.
What and what kind of tools that we're
using.
It excludes a bunch of other files from
the from the process.
It goes through some steps to discover
the testing setup.
Inventory the existing tasks,
map the critical functionality,
identify the gaps and risks,
recommend tests,
provide a prioritized list of missing
tests with the type, the target,
the scenario, the rationale,
establish them.
Basic code coverage goals or and then
summarize that and produce a report.
The report would look like an executive
summary with the detective testing,
the test inventory,
the gaps and the risks,
and then the list of the tests it wants,
sources it scans,
how long it took to do each one of them.
All right, so that's pretty good.
So if we took that test gas analysis
prompt and we bring it over into our
project.
Oh, that's this one.
And we add that to our instruction file.
We can then clear our context again.
And have it and do that test gap analysis.
10 files that look like test files.
It's it's found the test project.
It's searching for files that match those
20.
All right,
so now it's working on creating that
report.
So,
so when I'm working at code and they put
me on a new project,
if it's existing code, I've run a lot,
I've run all of these prompts and I use
it to, you know,
to to fill up their backlog to try to
basically make the technical debt visible
because that's the first step in getting
it resolved is to.
Is to get it identified and prioritized
and then we can have a discussion about
when we think we need to resolve those
kinds of technical data issues and that
goes a long way towards getting them
actually.
And getting the resources available to
actually address them. And that's,
you know,
I've just been working on a new project
for the last two or three weeks and I
added about 30 or 40 things to the
backlog just to surface.
Some of them were security issues,
some of them were.
Changes that needed to be made just to
improve the maintainability of the code
base,
but I find this to be a a useful exercise
to both both basically in terms of making,
making it,
helping us make it make sure that the
code is more.
Evergreen.
All right,
so so we should see that report soon.
All right, there we go.
So let's open our preview.
Let's move it into the new window.
All right,
so it tells us what repository that we
looked at when we did this report and
then with the current code coverages of
both by line and by branch,
solid test coverage 77%,
but there are significant gaps existing.
The mathematical functions are only um.
Only square root is tested of the new
functions that we added.
The use of UI interaction coverage is
about 48%.
Error handling in edge cases could be
improved.
Boundary conditions and precise limits.
You know integration scenarios between
the components. Overall risk is medium,
which is.
Which is good.
I get our medium and so it's well tested,
but critical features lack like those
functions and error states.
Framework is in its test test runner.
The the coverage report generator,
what the test structures look like,
the test naming patterns.
The code coverage configuration,
the CICD workflow steps.
The test inventory where which?
So we have 14 unit tests,
5 integration tests, 7 feature tests,
one command line test and one UI
components test and then it breaks it
down by component.
But so here we can see in the evaluator
what what tests are being executed by in
the program dot CS file in the main
window XAML file.
And there are no tests for the app WPL
application.
So here we go for the area and the target.
So it's looking for unit tests for the
evaluator for.
For all of the functions that we had
implemented but actually hadn't created
any tests for,
the reason those tests weren't created is
that we didn't have an instruction file
that demanded them and we didn't ask for
them in our prompt,
so it didn't create them.
The main window dot error display is a UI
integration test,
a UI unit test for the clear button and
the backspace button.
The history of the double click.
These are all considered to be high risk
items to test.
Then there's a whole range of medium risk
items to test and some minor gaps that it
wants us to to look at.
So immediate tests,
it says we want to close that the
critical functioning testing gap in on
those essential UI paths and get our test
coverage.
It's predicting that we could get it up
to 85% of line coverage asking for these
mathematical function tests.
And the WPF error handling test,
the keyboard input test and clear back
clear the clear and backspace key test
and nested functionality that where we're
using parentheses.
It wants to see some tests there.
So this is I I think a a pretty good look
at what we got,
what's going on in the project. You know,
we've been working in this code for two
or three days now and I think we kind of
had a sense for what some of the gaps we
had in in the covers as we were working.
But this is giving us a clear set of
targets and a plan for actually how to
achieve.
All right. So any questions are on this?
So far.
All right,
then why don't we quote it and just ask
it to?
Fix all the phase one critical gaps.
So let's go ahead and select that.
We can go back to our to our our project.
close that.
And we have this file open.
Let's keep that file.
That's a good report and clear our
context.
Looks like we're good there.
And then, uh, let's just say uh.
A phase one critical gap test.
So so we should see a new test files show
up.
Uh, you created those uh, six to do's.
So let's take a look at those.
So here we get a a kind of a peek into
what it's actually doing.
Yeah.
OK.
Right. Well,
we switch back to the slides and see if
there's something we can get caught up on
there while this is thinking.
So here we're going to exercise 5 in
generating some tests we're identifying.
We've also looked at identifying those
instruction compliance gaps and we got
some output on there in terms of things
that we would like to improve.
So we we did that exercise.
What we haven't done is having it address
one of those compliance gaps,
so we can try that then.
We did this yesterday where we compared
the implementations of two different,
two different,
two different implementations of the same.
Feature and got the pros and cons of each
one of those and pointed out some
interesting biases in the models that we
might have to take into consideration
when we're thinking about generating code.
And so we did that exercise.
Alright,
so we talked about creating instructions.
And how to use AI to help us generate or
create those instruction files.
And so that'll be the last bit.
What I what I think since we're going to
have some time,
why don't we take a stab after the test
implementation to see if we can get this
into a pre-commit hook?
Or or and to update PRS and into the
pipeline.
So it's it's having that directory
problem. Again,
this is happens when it opens up a new
terminal window.
The terminal window always starts in the
git folder because that's my default.
So it has to figure out that it needs to
change into that directory in order to do
that build.
All right, so here it wants to create a.
Pretty.
You want to edit the calculator CS file.
Which is not something we let it do on
its own.
So the the the project file was one of
the things that had had popped up in the
compliance analysis.
So this effort is going to address that
item as well.
Now it's running some tests.
The build has succeeded.
It's like the test have passed.
Adding the test project to the solution.
So give us 15 warnings but no issues.
So I have 61 tests passed out of 63 two
failures do a bug in the evaluator.
So.
So my question is,
let's see if two failures do,
it thinks there's a bug in the evaluator.
It's rejecting the E character for math E
when converting to a string with
scientific notation,
but then it's saying it wants to fix the
test.
So.
Um, did it change here?
So this is I would you know I would have
what I'm questioning is is this a valid
bug and we're then changing the test to
fix the the the way to which the bug
operates which is a a real danger I've
seen in.
Um.
And and you and AI generated tests is
that sometimes it it likes to make
assumptions to change the test rather
than identifying that that is an issue
that it actually have to change the
implementation that the test is correct.
So in this case, if um,
if we had decided that this is actually
is a bug,
we would I would go back here and say um.
And it still has those two failed tests.
I would go back and say no,
we did the the that.
That the E character is a valid character
and that you need to fix the test to fail
in that case and then fix the
implementation so that it passes the test.
It says the evaluator validates against
letters after the functions should have
been converted.
Interesting is notice the same problem in
a different function.
So it's now recognized that it's not the
it's not the test that needs to be fixed,
it's actually the implementation.
So now the tests are passing,
it's just doing the code coverage
analysis and.
We should be close to being finished with
all of these high priority.
Test that it identified.
Mhm.
And now this would be the correct file.
So our line coverage did go back up to
90%.
And.
I'm just looking at the complexity score
here.
So it's telling us that the replace
functions.
Uh.
Method has a has the highest complexity
score of of the in the project and so
that might be something that we have AI
take a look at and see if it can come up
with a implementation that's low that has
the less complexity.
In that screen you were just on where
it's prompting you to upgrade to pro
version,
is this is this something that's produced
by the AI like entirely or is it using
some tool for this?
It's using a a tool that it installed
when we first started to look at the.
At at the test coverage and it picked and
it picked this tool and and it did a an
OK, yeah, I think I remember that.
install so that we could use it.
Obviously you know you could specify
whatever tool that you wanted to run and
it would be able to take advantage of
that.
OK.
So here it's just basically trying to get
the XML from the coverage report so I can
tell us the same thing we just saw on the
screen.
So this is good.
So we've improved our coverage quite a
bit.
We've also tackled some of the more
critical bugs. So we've been,
I think increased the quality of the
application substantially as well.
So you know,
I think that was a a worthwhile effort
and it didn't take us long.
To do that.
Any questions on this?
Yeah, I have a quick question.
I did notice when I was doing some work
on my own simple project,
it seems to sometimes round up a number
and sometimes it doesn't.
Is there any rhyme or reason to that or
is it?
Like why?
Yeah, I could.
I think it it could be model differences
or versus the model difference.
There could be a number of reasons I can
OK.
think of for that if you give it more
explicit instructions on how you want the
data presented.
There's a that could improve that
situation. Yeah, I'd say that, you know,
OK.
that's about how I would approach it.
OK. Thank you.
I mean,
we could ask us to add another decimal
precision onto the line coverage and see
if it could.
It'll adjust the output.
So here line coverage is now expressed to
two decimal points.
All right.
OK, then if there's no other questions,
let's move forward.
Let's get our code committed.
So let's go ahead and.
Yeah,
so this is the behavior I've been seeing.
It can it's wants to create the new
terminal windows and every time it does
that it goes back to the root folder.
All right, so it's composed uh.
Commit message.
And it's now pushed those changes in for
us.
All right,
so let's see what we we were talking
about.
I think it was yesterday or the day
before about wanting to.
Uh, was it one of these?
Well,
how about we can we can use this one?
I think it's a good example.
I think we were talking about Evergreen
at the time, but we we can use this one.
Well,
what we want to say is we want to have
this style instruction execute when a
when a PR is submitted.
And if it finds,
if it finds errors in that.
When it evaluates those instructions or
result, they want to.
I want to add a commit message into the
PR. So we did something like that.
I said well, we said.
Uh.
It says.
The uh dot CS files.
Um.
Against the.
The style instructions.
In the park.
Any issues?
Uh, it's looking at the code and.
Now it's putting this report and that'll
be the first step towards the.
Getting this into a PR comments.
What did it do?
It didn't do what I wanted.
It's already committed to changes.
Well, let's see.
And that was the code coverage commit
that.
So maybe we're just finishing that up.
Here we evaluate it.
It searched it for those files.
That's good.
Did its work credit evaluation report.
That's what we asked for.
Detailed findings.
So it looks like it's it's happy with our
code coverage or I mean our code style.
Did have one thing to standardize in the
test file.
Grade is an A.
So that's good. So what I want,
what I want to do is modify this prompt
now to say.
And.
Report.
Weather.
Yes.
Passes or fails.
So what's the criteria for passing or
failing and and how come in the previous
round you were surprised that here that
that the changes were committed as
opposed to?
Well,
what was confusing me was that it was
asking me to approve.
Hmm.
Not a commit on the previous work that we
did and I that that confused me.
I thought it was asking me to commit some
changes that had done in this prompt and
that wasn't was what was happening.
So,
so this is what I did and and here we
have a final version that it passes and
it has excellent errors with a minor
inconsistency, right?
So that's pretty good.
Go ahead, question.
All right,
so now we have the ability to have a do a
pass fail,
which is what we what we're gonna need.
So it says.
Um, let's say I want to run.
This prompt.
when a PR is created.
And.
Yes.
The code fails.
To add a comment.
To the dial.
PR.
Describing.
Um, only.
Evaluate.
The code that was changed.
All right,
so that's a that's a pretty happy ask.
Let's see what it does with that.
So it wants to create a GitHub actions
workflow.
Which is essentially a a ACI,
something like a CI pipeline.
Yeah, I think now let's see how that does.
Any push to main or pull request to main.
This is our basic RPI CI process.
And now it's gonna create a PRS a
workflow specifically for style checking,
which is the sky.
So here we're saying on a on a pull
request which is open,
synchronized or reopened.
You need to be able to read.
And check out the repository.
Get the changed files.
Evaluate the C# style compliance.
So how's it doing this?
It's doing rejectors.
That's not what we want, right?
Triggers on a PR only checks the CS files
and it what it checks for is the name
spacing, Pascal case,
private fields without underscores,
public methods,
classes that are not using Pascal case,
so.
Autumn,
we post a comment with major violations,
minor violations and length of the styles
groups by severity updates,
existing comments.
Fails to check.
So the problem is.
It's is that I want to.
Run.
Yeah.
What?
Not use.
Rejects.
So this is almost always a iterator
process.
You try a prompt and you see what it does.
Sometimes you, you know,
undo and go back and try again.
John, what is Rejax?
Right.
It's a regular expression.
It's a it's a it's like a pattern
recognition language that can evaluate
strings of characters and and produce
other strings of characters,
including logical values like true or
false.
It's a very terse language,
but we don't want to use it here because
the problem is it's encoding in the
pipeline the exact rules,
and we don't want to do that.
We want to have the instruction file
actually be used to guide this so as we
change the instruction file.
It will then use that instruction file
when it does the C style evaluation.
That makes it much easier to maintain and
you don't have to go back and essentially
recreate the work that you did.
In order to create the the infrastructure
to support the comparison.
So it's modifying the Um.
The workflow to use the GitHub Pilot API,
GitHub Copilot AI and it's using YAML
syntax.
And adding an optional step to use GitHub
Copilot other than the AI.
So let's take a look at what it's doing
here.
It's not quite finished adding the prompt
file as an artifact so we can review it.
And a read me file.
So let's take a look at this guy.
So this is where all the real work is
being done, or at least some of it.
It's the same PR style check on pull
requests.
Here we get the same change files.
Now it's creating the style evaluation
reports.
Reading it's it's creating a style
evaluation prompt.
Yeah, stop doing that.
But here it's getting the.
Instruction MD file.
And it's get for the styles and also the
C shar styles instructions.
It's building a prompt from those
instructions.
Just by concatenating strings,
then here is going to evaluate that.
So now it's reading in that prompt text
file.
And here is the AI integration pieces of
it.
It's running a a GitHub copilot CLI
command.
With that prompt.
Can can I ask a question here about the
authentication?
Yeah.
When this thing runs in the pipeline,
whose identity does GitHub Copilot chat
assume?
So it this is a workflow.
So in in GitHub these workflows you have
to provide them with an authentication
token so it can run this on the back end.
So you would create that token in GitHub
and and it would then you put that into a.
Um.
So it's gonna need to impersonate someone,
right? One of us.
Yeah,
well it it it also I I believe it can run
under more of a a system context that you
provide instead of a single user.
OK, we can, yeah,
we can work that out later. Yeah,
But.
We'll see how, yeah.
the other question I had,
I saw you concatenating strings there.
Why doesn't it just grab the contents of
the instruction file?
But it did grab the content of the
instruction file up here before it's
built the prompt that was right in these
two lines.
It it gathered 2 instruction files and
then it what it did is created a prompt.
Which well, which we um.
That actually execute the and it rebus
this evaluation using those two
So, so.
instruction files.
Yeah, that's the part that confused me.
All that string concatenation,
like the content of that.
Is that something that's just dynamically
constructed here or is is are those lines
actually sitting in one of the
instruction files already and it pulled
it out of there?
Did the string concatenation with that?
The string concatenation is actually a
part of the pipeline or the workflow that
it's created that's going to run when the
check in occur,
I mean the PR creation has occurred.
So this becomes a static definition of
that prompt.
Right,
which is I I think I I I don't like as
well.
What I would like to do is give it a an
actual prompt file that we've created
which is you know we don't have one here
for evaluating.
And the style specifically,
so we might want to create that ahead of
OK.
time,
but if we wanted to substitute the gap
analysis,
have it read and use this prompt instead.
Alright, so I.
I mean,
it's essentially writing a lot of
PowerShell there.
So partial invokes the GitHub chat API.
Is that how it works?
Mhm.
Right.
So YAML to PowerShell to GitHub,
compile the chat API, something like that,
OK.
And here it modifies the PR and uploads
the results.
OK, so as long as we have a valid token,
this should actually work in an Azure
That's right. Mm-hmm.
Azure hosted pipeline. OK, thanks.
Right. Um.
Right,
but the the thing I uh let me see if I
have one to.
Oh,
we an improvement we could could make is
a a create a.
Prompt file that evaluates.
Uh C#.
Call me.
For style.
Compliance.
With the idea that we could then ask,
we could ask a copilot to update the
workflow to use this prompt file instead
of creating one on the fly.
All right,
so now we have a new prompt which is
evaluate the C# style prompts.
You're a code reviewer.
It it's specifying cases and types
methods.
Which is good.
So that's a good file. Let's keep that.
Um, this is the workflow.
We haven't changed that,
so let's keep that and make it updated
and then we have a readme file that says
how it all works.
So let's say update the workflow.
To use the new product.
Now GitHub already has a feature. Um.
That's like this.
It's called the AI code review and it
will you can. When you turn it on,
every single PR that you create will be
reviewed and updated with any issues that
that copilot finds.
I haven't worked with it too much.
I don't know how configurable it is in
terms of this the rules that it applies,
but this will apply our rules from our
project.
Directly. So here's the workflow.
You want to notice that it's it's taking
out all of the prompt string
concatenation,
the building of the prompt file,
and instead it's just getting the
contents of that prompt file that we
created.
Which is what we asked it to do.
So we should see all of this
concatenation disappeared.
That's better. Thank you.
Yeah.
Just YAML is really sensitive and I would
like to put as little in there as
possible.
Yes, that's it.
Really, we always want it to be, you know,
you get this and do that with it,
get this file and do something else with
it, but not a lot of manipulation itself.
So it's updated the README files down
here.
And it wants to add the workflow or
update the workflow.
It's now.
Update the style checking.
Right.
All right, so um.
Let's go into our calculator.
And let's um.
Oops.
We'll turn the whole thing into lowercase.
So what you're doing now is creating a
commit that's gonna violate some of those
rules.
Yeah, that's the idea.
And it should stop us in some way.
That would be the hope. So um.
Let's go ahead and keep our changes and.
Let's go ahead and um.
Create a PR for these changes.
Um.
So it doesn't look like it's gonna let us
get that far.
You mean it's gonna fix it before it
would validate anything? I mean,
Right.
that's not a bad problem to have, right?
Well, yeah, just like security, right?
This is a, you know, defense in depth.
It's multiple ways in which it can catch
this problem.
It's good that it's doing it before it
even creates the PR.
We notice it just put everything right
back to where it was.
Well,
you could just try to do it manually,
like create a bad commit and try to push
it and then ask it to create the PR,
see what happens.
Or or if I even if I created a PR
Right.
manually, it should still trigger right?
Yes, so um.
Well, it's still working,
so let's let it finish what it's doing.
And then we'll go ahead and try see if we
can brute force it.
And and John, I didn't see you do that,
but what about that token or the security
key?
Like did you actually set it or does it
automagically put in something that's
usable?
We're we're not running it in a pipeline
right now.
So it's we're it's basically kind of
running under our context at this stage.
You're not running it in the pipeline. OK,
so so what's running it?
So I.
Is it the pre-commit hook?
Is that what it is?
Yes, that's what. Well, let's see.
We're defining our workflows.
We have a style checker workflow.
It's executing on a pull request.
Against the main branch.
Style checker OK,
I'm not familiar with the GitHub
workflows.
Can you please elaborate on that?
So if it's not a pipeline, what is this?
Or if it's not a GitHub action,
when I say pipeline,
Alright.
you know I'm thinking Azure DevOps
pipelines,
the GitHub actions is an equivalent,
right?
What?
So what is the difference between a
workflow and an action?
Yep.
They're the test.
They're the really the same thing.
They just trigger on different.
So the workflow triggers before the PR
gets created.
On different things.
This all.
Right,
so here we're saying that trigger on any
any pull request to the branch main.
Which is which is either the PR is opened
or that it's synchronized or reopened.
For any CS file.
OK, so before actually creating the PR,
it will run the check.
Right.
So here we go.
OK.
So let's see if we can.
Get it to fail.
Where was our code?
And let's execute the.
Mm.
The bad style.
And then we'll say here.
Oh yeah, I guess I'll add both of them.
And then we'll say create a commit
message.
But.
Yeah, that's not it's it still wants to.
We sort of finished up this year.
Alright,
so now we go back to our change we.
Got a little ahead of ourselves. Um.
And let's submit our code change that's
in the already there.
So let's go ahead and fix this.
Um, we're already on a branch.
So we'll we can push to that branch.
So then we would need to to go to GitHub.
For our projects.
And pull requests.
You see that this is our.
Well, I think it's a new power quest,
right?
I think so.
It's got a bunch of things in here,
but do we see our?
CS file that we just changed.
The evaluator.
And it looks like, yes,
that's got our change in it, right?
So it's like.
Good.
So did you create it already?
No,
I was I I was selecting the branch and I
think what it does when I choose this
branch.
It sees that there's already a pull
request for it, but we should be.
Since we made that change and it's been
included,
it's telling us that I think when we
looked at all the files that it wasn't
included in that pull request, so.
We look at the pull request.
Yeah, I don't know what.
I don't know what was in the previous
Then.
pull request.
Well,
let's see if we can edit the pull request.
So what I'm one concern I have here is if
if that original YAML wasn't in the
wasn't merged into main yet,
then there is nothing to trigger
technically.
You're right, right.
We kinda need to have that in right
before it can trigger and then make the
bad change.
So I'm not sure.
Alright,
well let's go ahead and let's see if we
can.
Approve this pull request.
It looks like it's failing RCI.
Does it say why?
It looks like it's failing on all the
changes that we made.
You know,
we converted everything to lower class
that.
So yeah, so I think we have.
Yeah.
It's kind of stepped on our PR.
Is this?
Yeah, it's this. Uh,
this looks like a build failure.
That's what could be out.
That's because we changed the casing of
things that were were important.
So let's go ahead and approve this.
Just to get the workflow into the
pipeline.
Or into the into the our domain.
So we'll merge that.
I I would I I would probably undo those
bad changes and then then complete it,
let it succeed and then then I would redo
the bad change.
OK, let's go ahead and finish.
You know what I mean?
Just to make sure we have a stable base
to start with and actually builds.
Maybe it doesn't matter in this case,
but it's just probably cleaner that way.
Well, let's look at the commits.
I think that'll be the easiest way to get
it out.
So this is the this is this one.
There's not those changes.
Let me see the build error. So let's see,
can we?
How do I get rid of this?
I mean one way would be on on your local
PC to the undo the changes and do another
push into the same pull request.
All right, let's try that.
Yes.
Uh, need to go back to.
So now we have our commits.
So we should be able to.
Merge that from request.
And then go back.
On that same branch and do the same.
Bad change.
Do you don't?
Don't you have to rebase that branch or
does that happen?
It should happen automatically when we.
Automatically, OK.
And we set the workflow to fire.
I.
So if we go back.
It looks like it's still thinking about
this.
But here's the change so we can create a
pull request on that.
So here it's got that PR style check that
it's running.
Yeah, that's what we are testing, right?
The other one was already there and
working, correct?
Right,
so here we can see it's getting the
OK.
change files. It's doing the the work.
It said the style check passed.
So if it passed,
does that mean it did not catch the lower
casing?
Yeah, that's what it looks like.
So here's the Jason results.
Results. No violations.
What about the build? Did that fail also?
No, it failed.
OK.
So,
so the style checker did not catch what
we were expecting it to catch.
That's correct.
But the fact that it triggered,
that's already a positive thing. Oh yeah.
Mm-hmm.
And it triggered at the right time.
All right, well, I'll,
I'll do some a little bit more
investigation before tomorrow and I'll
see if I can come up with a reason why it
didn't quite do what we wanted it to do
and I'll look at a little bit deeper into
what actually happened and see if I can.
Figure it out.
All right,
so that's a this is a good point.
Oh.
This is the end.
Let's talk a bit about what we're going
to start into tomorrow.
Tomorrow's a Greenfield,
which means we're going to do a bit like
what we did on the first day at the end
where we actually started with a blank
slate and and build up a project from the
from the beginning.
Um.
So the the key with that, with the green,
with this green field is that we'd wanna
be able to provide those instruction
files up front as well as provide.
Um.
We want to provide a business context.
We want to be able to say what we want to
build in more detail and we want to
define some business rules that we want
to see enforced as as it's as we
implement the code.
So this will be a little bit bigger of an
effort than I can the calculator will be
or was and.
We'll get into some new concepts and some
things that you might not be familiar
with in terms of describing the business
rules.
So I think you'll find it interesting,
an interesting exercise to try to carry
that through.
We may not be able to get all the way
through the complete implementation in
one.
You know in one session,
but we'll we'll get,
we'll take it as far as we can get it
towards an implementation and I can show
you one that I've I've taken through to
completion and which is along the same
lines that will demonstrate what it's
what we're capable of accomplishing.
So that's it for today and have have a
good rest of your day and we'll see you